Source code is the set of computer instructions that make up a computer program, in such a form that a computer programmer can modify the instructions.

Version control (also called source control or revision control ) is the tools and processes that are used to manage multiple versions of computer files as the files change over time.

Git is a specific example of version control. It is a popular version control system. You can use Git to manage the versions of your computer programs and work on programs in conjunction with other developers.
Git is itself a computer program. A computer programmer can install the Git program on their computers, and then use that program while creating software and websites.

GitHub is a popular web site owned by Microsoft. It can be used to store source code, accomplish version control on that source code, track defects in that source code and manage work tasks for the computer programmers working on that source code.

Software Suite: a collection of computer programs that typically perform similar functions. These computer programs usually share a similar user interface.

Repository is the main location where data can be kept and handled. It is the central location where code for a particular program is stored.

A branch is a duplication of code or a portion of it, so that changes can be made to it without affecting the original code.
A typical business scenario for a team of developers working together on a particular project would be for the main project files, known as “MASTER” or “MAIN” repository files to be cloned (copied) to a developer’s local hard drive so that they may work with these files whether they are connected to the remote hard drive or not. Before a developer will make any changes to their copied files, they typically will make a new “BRANCH” of all the copied files in the local repository.

Merging is the action of combining various versions of a file or folder. It means to combine changes in files that exist in two or more different locations (or being handled by two or more developers). It is combining changes in data

“checking in” code refers to adding the changes you made to a set of computer code into the code that is being managed by a version control system.
Conversely, “checking out” code means marking a certain part of the code that is being managed by a version control system as being subject to modification. That section of code can then be managed by the version control system in such a manner that the system acts to prevent conflicts that could be caused if another person wanted to work on that exact same section of code simultaneously to you working on it.

A backbone is a part of a computer network that interconnects various pieces of a network, providing a path for the exchange of information between different subnetworks.
This is part of a computer network that connects various sections of the network. It provides a path for information exchange between the various networks integrated into it.
It is essentially a “senior” network containing a high capacity connection that forms the main link to various “junior” networks.

Overhead literally means “the cost associated with something.” In running a business, overhead includes rent cost, marketing expenses and payroll.
In computers, overhead refers to the amount of work required of the computer to perform an action (such as running certain software). Overhead includes how much bandwidth is utilized, how much processing power is required, the amount of memory is taken up, etc. by a particular website, program, etc.

A shell is a type of program that provides a user interface between the user and the operating system. You can use the shell to locate files, start and stop other programs, etc.
Some shells provide a graphical interface, where visual objects on the screen are used to represent the files and programs on the computer. Other shells provide a text-only interface.

copy-modify-merge method: Any number of developers can download a file and edit it. When sending the edited file back to the server, the server checks if the file being sent is “up-to-date” with any changes that were sent before it. If it’s “out-of-date”, the server shows the developer which changes were made and forces the developer to integrate those changes into the current document. Usually developers aren’t working on the same portion of the same document, so these are typically easy to integrate.

Bash is short for “Bourne Again SHell.” Bash is a command-line user interface for Unix.
A command language is a programming language made up mostly of commands that are mainly used for communicating with the operating system of a computer.
Bash is a shell and a command language. Users can type commands that cause actions in the bash.

a console is an input/output device for a computer. It allows the user to view certain data about the computer, and to enter data and instructions into the computer. A console typically consists of a screen (for output) and a keyboard (for input).

“pseudo” in front of a word to show that you are describing something that is pretending to be something it is not. Pseudo means false or “not really that way." Pseudocode is a way to describe a code or coding without using the actual code itself.
The pseudo console (also called ConPTY ) is a text-based console that grants developers the ability to work with and communicate with command line applications. It is a sort of intermediary (in between) application that allows you to send and receive commands from the command line.

.sh (short for SHell) is a file extension which indicates a script file that contains a shell command or set of shell commands for the computer to execute.

Vim stands for Vi Improved.
Vi is short for Visual and was created for the Unix operating system as a text editor.
Vim is a newer version of Vi. It is a text editor, but unlike traditional text editors such as Notepad or Word (where inputs from the keyboard would insert the symbol or letter pressed), the inputs can be used to move the cursor around a document without the use of a mouse.

crt. is a file extension that indicates the file contains a digital certificate for validating the authenticity of a website in a web browser.
Ca-bundle.crt is a certificate authority file that contains multiple certificates to verify security and ensure trust that your data will be secure and kept private on the internet. The CA bundle improves compatibility of certificates for web browsers to recognize so that no security warnings appear in your browser's address bar.

LF stands for line feed.
Control characters are not printable characters. They instead represent an action to be done by the computer for text files. For example, delete is a control character.  
LF is another example of a control character.
The control character LF denotes a line break in a text file – the cursor moves down to the next line but does not move to the beginning of the line.

CRLF stands for carriage return line feed and is another control character. The CRLF control character moves the cursor to the beginning of the line.

MSYS2 stands for Minimal Systems 2.
MSYS2 is a collection of open source software tools that would normally depend on Unix tools to operate. It provides the support needed to build Windows applications without the dependencies of Unix tools.

mintty is a terminal. It is a text-based console interface (like the windows command line).
An emulator is software that imitates a computer program and can perform the same kinds of tasks. For example, there are video game console emulators (such as Sega Genesis or Nintendo 64) that allow you to play video games from these systems on a computer.
MinTTY is a terminal emulator.

Winpty stands for Windows pseudo terminal. It is a Windows software package that provides a way for Windows console programs to communicate with Unix interfaces, such as bash.

“INI” is short for “initialization.”
INI files are used by the Windows operating system, typically to lay out operating instructions for the OS and some programs.

The docx file format (.docx) is short for “document XML.
XML is an extensible markup language. This means that developers can create their own document structure, and then use XML to specify markup instructions for the data in those documents. Tags are the markup language words that usually have two parts, a start tag and an end tag. They have these symbols before and after them: < and >. XML is similar to HTML except that the code itself can be customized (i.e. the developer can create their own tags).

Touch is a command-line interface program for Unix that is used to update date information – such as: changing the date that a file or directory was modified or accessed. Touch can also be used to create or open a file.

A command-line option (also known as an option, flag or switch ) modifies the operation of a command.
In many CLIs, these options are written by typing a hyphen, followed by the desired option (called a switch ).

Parse means to break something up into its parts and analyze it
In computing, it means that the program code is analyzed and read.

When you use the command “git init,” the current location within your file system will be assigned as a local git repository. So you will want to be sure to use this command with a project folder you have created specifically for your project files.

A fork is a copy of a repository. You can fork a repository and make changes to it without affecting the original project. Forks are commonly used to recommend changes to projects belonging to someone else or to utilize someone else’s project as a starting point for your own.

A GitHub README is written in the .md format, which stands for markdown.

A good README consists of a few important elements, for example:
Titles - Names of important sections within the README.
Introduction - The project's aim.
Technologies - List of languages used.
Launch - Version of languages used for reproducibility.
And, depending on the scope of the project, they will also contain:
Table of contents – Contains links to the main sections of the README.
Illustrations – Pictures of code that help show what was created.
Scope of functionalities – What the program is capable of.
Examples of use – What it can be used for.
Project status – What stage of development the project is at.
Sources – List of sources for the project.
Other information – Author and contact information, social media links, and licenses.


